So many founders get trapped in this
idea that I should get customers as fast
as I can. I should ask them what they
want. I think it's worthwhile. The best
founders should actually spend some time
build the product based on their own
vision, show an end toend point of view
and solve a real problem. For everyone
who's listening or every CEO or founder
is in the early part, swing big. Swing
big, you fail big.
>> If you're a new new CEO,
>> why not swing as hard as you can, right?
Take three swings. Who cares? At the end
of the day, if it works out, it's going
to work out spectacularly. If it doesn't
work out, pack your bags and move.
If you want to hear a master class on
how to be a CEO, listen to this pod with
Nikesh Aurora, the CEO of PaloAlto
Networks. We go behind the scenes on
Nikesh the man, his remarkable career,
the lessons he learned from Larry Page,
Eric Schmidt, and Masasan, how he became
a CEO, how he actually does the job, and
how he earns hundreds of millions a year
doing it. We go deep into one of my
favorite topics, second acts, and how
great companies become platforms, which
is often the difference between a really
nice outcome and a legendary one. and
they're pulling the legendary side off.
And we go very deep on M&A.
Um, and we go deep on M&A from his side,
the buyer's side with some really smart
acquisition practices. I really like
that. But this podcast is much more for
the entrepreneur. So, when I come back
at the end, by the way, I'm going to
back at the end with a bunch of takes on
this. But one interesting take I'm going
to have is I'm going to flip it around
and I'm going to talk about best
practices on getting acquired from the
entrepreneurs perspective based on what
we learned on Nash does it. So we'll see
you in a bit. Hope you enjoy the
podcast. Um going to be great. Okay
Nashesh about 27 companies.
Um things I get questions on from
startups and we ask ourselves at HubSpot
like we buy a company and sometimes we
kind of throw a lot of it away. keep the
domain expertise and the talent and
rebuild it on our platform because we're
a platform company and kind of our
differentiation relative to Salesforce
and other companies is we are kind of
allin one.
>> Do you ever kind of throw out a lot of
it and rebuild it or do you kind of keep
it all and just keep pushing it in the
market?
>> Look, if you think about acquisitions,
they take on different forms. Now, cyber
security is so fragmented that they're
actually four or five swim lanes. So you
could actually build a platform in every
swim lane. For example, you can build an
endpoint platform. You can build a sock
platform. You can build a network
platform. And these don't talk to each
other as much. You can move data from
one to the other. But yeah, you
shouldn't build an endpoint stack with
five different technologies. You
shouldn't build a network. So there it
matters if you're rewriting on your
stack or not. Now you know if you think
about what inspires you to go buy
something versus build it yourself you
know it becomes an essential feature you
believe you can take the innovative lead
in doing that and the process of
integration is 3 months or four months
and that you're willing to take that hit
take for example we were never a player
in sassy which is you know a form of
accessing your your infrastructure
remotely we saw that AI is coming There
are certain use cases which are not
satisfied. People have third party
contractors and they try and access your
systems. You have to give them a laptop
and you have to be secure. And we saw
the emergence of companies building an
agentic sorry a secure browser
>> island or talon for that matter. Right.
Yes.
>> And I said to my team, hey guys, this is
going to be important. There's a browser
coming. There are people building it. I
know we've had browser fakes as in head
fakes in the market. People have thought
about browser going to take over the
enterprise many times. But I said this
time it feels real.
>> So my team is always like you'd expect
from any engineering team would came in
and showed me a plan saying 60 engineers
9 months we'll give you a great browser.
We'll be you know we'll get to where
these guys are.
>> And I said what do you expect? These
guys just hang out wait for you to catch
up with the next nine months. They'll be
again nine months ahead and their team's
working. They're going to add more
people.
>> So we ended up acquiring talent. Now
we spend some time
refactoring it, aligning it with our
platform because remember the browser
has two parts. The one part is the
browser itself which is the refactoring
of chromium etc. The second part is
attaching security services for it to be
an enterprise browser. Now what both
Talon and their competitors are doing is
they're buying third party security
service and whoever give it to them so
they could do focus of browser part. We
had the third party security services.
So we have premium third party security
services which we can connect to the
browser. So we did that in the case of
talent and then we combined that with
our sassy product. So we were able to go
off the races from the go to market
perspective saying listen we have a
comprehensive solution you can get
remote browser isolation you can get the
browser you can get a VPN client you can
get all of them with one security fabric
across the board that allows us to be
differentiated from our competition for
a long time now as you can see perhaps
it is the right bet or the market
believes the right bet because the
competitor is valued so highly that for
anybody else in our space to compete
they have to put out 8 to10 billion to
compete with us. So that allows us a leg
up now and I think you know where it's a
comprehensive solution requirement
there's nobody but us. If somebody's
willing to take just a browser then
there's another option in the market.
>> Okay. In in that particular case you buy
a very hot company.
>> Yes. Hot technology. What was not clear?
We paid a lot less than what the current
value is. We paid like $600 or so.
>> Okay. Um in the current market anyone
you're buying it's expensive and the
talent's expensive.
>> Yes. Uh, one thing we ask ourselves at
HubSpot is we buy this company, we want
to retain this talent and they're
incredibly valuable outside and it's
incredibly valuable to them to start a
new company.
>> Are you doing creative things
compensation wise to to the founding
teams, the engineering teams to try to
lock them in so they don't jump at the
next huge pay package?
>> Yeah. So, you know, we've had experience
now doing this north of 25 times and we
have a simple rule and we've learned
this over the years. This was not the
first time we did it. Like the first
time we did it, we were like, you know,
fumbling through this. But is there some
fundamental principles which I think
distinguished ourselves from what people
have traditionally done in M&A.
>> Okay.
>> One, I have a simple rule. These guys
kicked our ass in the market with less
resources, move faster than us.
>> So they must know things better than us.
So they have to come and run this
instead of our people. Traditionally,
companies say, "Oh, meet my senior VP of
crypto." And he bought a crypto company.
You're going to report to him. Well, the
senior VP of crypto should have kicked
their ass. we have given the resource
they wanted. So the founders become the
bosses of our people as opposed to the
other way around which our people find a
little unnerving to be fair
>> I would imagine.
>> And but the founders find that
rewarding. That's one. Two um we say how
can we help you accelerate your business
because we are going to have a drag on
them for sure. We're a larger company.
We will slow them down in some cases
perhaps with our processes perhaps it's
other way. So the first question is how
do I accelerate your business? typically
is get me more engineers right I want to
move faster or let me do this
>> now the third thing we do is
>> we spend the diligence period designing
a joint product roadmap
>> okay
>> we didn't do that the first two times
>> so when we bought the company the
founder said dude thanks for the money
and thanks for letting me come here but
I want to build what I want to build
like dude no I just paid you a lot of
money you're going to build what we
agree I'm happy to agree with them and
if you don't agree good news is you
don't have to sell to me
>> okay
>> so we design an agreed product roadmap
before we sign the final term.
>> Okay.
>> And the most importantly asked the
question on talent, right? Again, I say
we're buying half product and most
talent
>> because these things are three years in
two and a half years in. I think it
takes four to seven years to build a
good product in tech. So, we still have
two three years to go. I think the shelf
life or halfife of founders is about 3
years in the company.
>> And do you do a three-year vest or
something?
>> So, we do unvest.
>> Okay.
>> We tell the founder, we're buying your
company.
>> Yeah. You have to uninvest half your
stock.
>> Oh, that's brutal.
>> Three years. But we will top it off
between 25 to 40% depending on, you
know, the economics that are at play.
>> I see. Okay.
>> So, we'll give more equity to them.
>> I see.
>> That's the only time I can give them
tremendous amounts of equity because
part of a structured deal.
>> I see. And what about a frontline
engineer who's just really good? Like
you've got, you buy a company, it's got
30 engineers, the founders is one thing,
but all those engineers are really smart
and have domain expertise. Do you do
clever things with them? Do you roll
them back?
>> We roll some of them back. Some of them
are newer to the company than the
founders. So usually they have an year
year or two remaining. We generally try
to lock them in for the first three
years.
>> Three years. Yeah.
>> And then what percent do you think leave
after 3 years
>> roughly?
>> You know if you think about founders
some bizarre reason there's typically
more than one in tech. There's usually
two on average.
>> Uh usually one of them works harder than
the other one.
>> Okay. uh and you'll find that look
around you think about think about all
the tech companies which have gone
through the process of multiple founders
that eventually success whether it's a
Facebook whether it's you know yeah
YouTube you look around you all these
companies where there were multiple
founders eventually there's one founder
front and center
>> and the other founders sort of don't
want to do that and they go off and do
different things so typically you'll
find that in every stage of a company
you'll find a four-year-old company
where one founder is working hard rarely
do you find a company where all two or
three founders are working equally hard
but anyway let's assume that there's one
or two it doesn't matter in this for
this for these purposes right those
founders are the ones we will then find
a way to work with to find the identify
the engineers that are needed I think at
P alto I want to say the primary
founders have almost all lasted the
three years we've asked them to last and
there are a few who lasted longer
there's some founders who made more
money being part of Palato than in the
seven years they ran
>> incredibly well yes
>> yeah but if you get a lot of stock at
Palto we say you can't sell it for two
years sometimes to do a lot better.
>> Yeah.
>> Than than they would have done if they'd
hung on to it.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Related to this, like at HubSpot,
we do some version of horizon planning.
>> H1, near-term, H2, H3.
>> How do you guys do that? And how do you
do it when like shit's changing so fast
right now? Like it's really sped up. How
do you guys think about that? Where does
M&A kind of fit into all that
>> or do you not do it at all? I'm trying
to interpret your version of horizon
planning in terms
>> well like at HubSpot we look at our our
like what is HubSpot going to look like
in a year we want 70% of our resources
on this is the next year we want 20% on
stuff that's two three years out we
actually want 10 on stuff that's going
to be 5 years out
>> got it got it
>> um yeah um we do it uh because we have
now multiple platforms in each platform
there's a core part of the platform
which is where typically 60 to 70% of
resources are deployed because you're
constantly adding features constantly
adapting to certain customer
requirements. There's 10 to 20% of the
people who have to be working on new
features to be launched, right? I want
to see a 12 to 18 months rolling road
map saying what cool thing are you going
to show me? Because if you're not
working on some cool thing, somebody
else is. So there's a team that works on
the cool things. And then there's the
the 5% is the hardest part.
>> The fiveyear out problem is the hardest
problem because
>> that's where I think is where we end up
relying on M&A.
>> Yeah. where there are people out there
thanks to the thriving venture
community. You guys are doing such a
wonderful job in seeding all these
research labs that I still see a few
hundred companies a year and the good
news is they're so great they come and
share what they're working on their
ideas because you know I share the view
if I was so smart that I could take
something from a startup and go build it
faster than them then they shouldn't be
in that business anyway.
>> Fine. Um, a lot of the founders I coach
are building apps and are trying to go
on to their second app and want to build
a platform. And there's this saying
kicking around either you you are a
platform, you get eaten by a platform. I
feel like under your watch, PaloAlto
became a multiplatform company.
>> Advice to founders thinking about second
acts, thinking about going from, you
know, a point solution to a platform.
Look um we didn't start as a platform
company. We started as a firewall
company. Yeah. When I came to Palato,
you know, the last major innovation that
was launched to the markets was four
years before I arrived.
>> And they hadn't done a lot of launches
because they're very happy with the fact
that firewalls were selling and we had
four subscriptions and there was amazing
organic growth.
>> Yeah.
>> I said then what's the next act? What
are you going to build?
>> Yeah.
>> Now that's where it becomes important to
have some guidelines as to what's
useful, what is not useful. So I tell
you a funny story. I was sitting in the
room and I knew nothing about cyber
security and I'm sure we'll talk about
this
>> and
>> I said to the head of product legal I
said so what are people working on like
what's going on what are people working
on we haven't launched anything for a
while I said well you know we have this
big release we do every year which is a
software release for all of our
firewalls I'm like that's great so what
are what are these people doing this
must be like 5 600 engineers so Jesse
Rston our head of engineering came in
and he brought two of his colleagues
he's meeting the new CEO and he's going
to tell him what to do so I said what
are you working on I was very excited he
says okay
>> I'm working on 60 new features for our
new software for for a new software
upgrade for the firewall. I'm like,
that's cool. Is that going to help you
sell more firewalls? I don't know.
That's kind of like sounds like a lot of
work for 600 people. And I'm like, so am
I going make money? I know we're going
to sell more firewalls. Okay, that's do
me a favor. Three, if you're working on
it six months like I said, here's the
marker whiteboard. Just write down the
60 features.
So, they got exhausted after 37.
>> Okay.
>> I said, you do realize we've got a
problem. He said, what's the problem? I
said, "I got sales people out there.
They got to sell this stuff. You're
building it. You're smarter. You can't
remember past 37. How the hell am I
sales people going to learn 60 new
features which are going to be for
free?"
>> No way.
>> This is the problem. And this is tells
you how how marginally competent I was.
In on that 37 things, there were seven
lines which said DNS on them. That seems
to be a bit thematic. Talk to me about
DNS security. So, they told me about DNS
security, told me about infoblocks, told
me about all the stuff that was going
on. I said, "So, can we replace a DNS
security vendor if we do this?" Oh, no.
We've solved 60% of the problem, but the
other 40% is harder and requires a
little more work than what we can do in
the OS. I like 60% not good enough, bud.
Like, what am I going to do with the
other 40%. So, that day we redirected
the rest of the effort for the next four
months into making the DNS security more
robust. That was the first piece of
innovation we launched at Palato.
>> That was your second act.
>> That was my first or first act company's
second act.
>> Well, that was the beginning of the
company's second act. The reason I tell
the story is
>> that was the beginnings of the idea of a
platform. Which means if you have a
firewall which is being deployed by our
customers, they trust us to go in and
get inline. They buy four subscriptions
from us. What other sliver feature
industries as part of our ecosystem can
we eliminate by giving them a fifth,
6th, 7th, 8th, 9th to 10th? So actually
>> over the course of the last seven years
we launched six others. So we have 11
subscriptions now that can be sold on
the platform. I.e. you buy the hardware
box and now I can do 11 different things
which are all 11 billion you know
lateral markets that get consolidated on
the platform.
>> So that was kind of the beginning of the
idea of a platform.
>> But
>> I sat there and said how many cyber
security products are there? There were
a lot. There are five swim lanes. There
are many products. And I said we're only
in one magic quadrant. Looks like this
is something important. I was like
feeling my way through cyber security
through enterprise. Like why can't we we
be on more magic quadrant? So today
we're north of 24 magic coordinates.
>> That was great. So we're very good, very
well done. Lots of point products sold
by produced by Palo Alto. And they said,
"By the way, the problem is each of
these require their own validation,
their own specialists, their own
convincing the customer." I said, "This
is not how we're going to do it. Let's
make sure now that we have 24 great
products. We stitch them that they work
better together." Yeah.
>> Which became sort of the next push
behind platformization. So
>> when was that? This was about three
years ago when we started stitching them
into three platforms. Our network
security platform, our cloud platform
and our our cortex sim platform and then
you discovered that when we talked to
customers about the platform, it was
open season. There was nobody else in
the conversation cuz we were going and
saying listen, we don't want you to buy
just a point solution. Look, these six
things work together. And once we get
people convinced on the platform, then
they start a journey and moving to Palo
Alto, which is great because we have
very low churn on our platform sales and
their customers are happy. They get
deployed
>> and they would never rip out a platform
and go back and say, "Oh, let me go
build six point products and go to
replace Pala with those six point
products." So, it kind of worked out,
but you can't start there.
>> Yeah.
>> You have to start with an MVP with
something that's innovative that's going
to make you win. And then customers you
get their trust and say by the way I
also do this and what I do here is also
as good as everybody else if not better.
>> Yes. You have to get to table stakes at
some level.
>> That's right. And that's where if you're
building the next app if you have one
app the question is what is a lateral
app where you to use the cliche 1 plus 1
is three. If your app and this other app
works together does it create a better
outcome and does allow me as a customer
to replace that? when you're you're
planning this stuff,
how much of PaloAlto is you or your team
looking around a corner versus, you
know, we just got to listen to customers
about what customers want.
>> That's a tough one. You know, you want
to say we listen to customers, so we do.
>> Yes.
>> Uh but my customers are not going to
tell me that browser's next.
>> Yep.
>> Right. I literally we had our summit
last week in Napa and we had a bunch of
CIOS there and literally showing them
the browser, showing them the value of
the browser and you know they oh my god
this is cool can you spin up one for me
literally spinning up tenants for our
customers to try the browser and they
look and say holy [__] why are we not
doing this stuff so they wouldn't be
telling me because they would tell me
the 27 reasons why browsers never worked
in the enterprise for many years but now
I tell them really you don't think in
six to 12 months from now you'll have
multiple agentic browsers who will want
to take over credentials and do tasks
for
and you don't want to find a way to
control them. Oh [__] you're right. We
better go get our act together and go
figure the browser stuff up. So I think
many cases you end up with customers who
either will tell you incremental
features. Like I had a customer once I
was sitting there and saying listen
>> would like you to take this uh network
security platform from us and by the way
we have telemetry, we have metering, we
have observability in the platform and
we have all these cool things in SDWAN.
And he says, "Where do I manually do
traffic steering in your platform?" I'm
like, "You want to do what?" So, I want
to do manual traffic steering. I'm
saying, "You run a very large network.
You actually believe you have the mental
capacity in your team to do manual
traffic switching.
>> There's no such option." Now the problem
is the risk is sometime this one was
obvious but the problem is there are
many times the customers ask you for
stuff that is something they're used to
doing in a different product or a
different way and now you're suddenly
working backwards creating backward
compatibility. So you got to watch out
for what the right balance is between
sort of you know
>> don't listen too hard. Yeah, you have to
adapt to their requirements to some
degree so you can make their stuff work.
But you got to be careful about getting
full feature knowledge about the future
because you take the example the reason
by the way this is this is pertinent to
cyber security cyber security founders
have this strange affliction they will
start building and they want to go out
there and talk to customers as quickly
as they can. It's like literally three
six months in they're talking to their
buddy CESOS have these customer advisory
councils. They bring all these people in
give them some advisory shares. I ask
them what do you think? Now typically
people who have their free time are
large enterprise sees or CIOS. So
they'll hang out with you, they'll come
to your offsite, they'll give you
advice. Large infrastructure people
don't want UI.
>> They want speeds and feeds.
>> So typically they point the founders
towards speeds and feeds.
>> Founders feel really happy. Oh my god, I
built speed and feeds and look this bank
is using me because this bank's got
15,000 engineers. They want speeds and
fees because you found some threat
vector and they'll take the speed and
feed put in their system. The problem is
that's not a product. That's not a
product an enterprise can deploy or work
with or use effectively. So many
founders get trapped in this idea that I
should get customers as fast as I can. I
should ask them what they want. I think
it's worthwhile. The best founders
should actually spend some time build a
product based on their own vision, show
an end toend point of view and solve a
real problem. That was the case with
HubSpot. We built stuff that
first of all investors thought we were
stupid.
VC.
>> I'm sure they love you now because you
did a great outcome for them. So
>> we did our series A.
>> It's easy to change their mind.
Customers a little harder.
>> Yes, we did our series A was five on a
six pre.
Give away a lot of the company series A.
>> That sounds like a like a angel check
right now.
>> Yeah, totally. Um, as I listen to you
and I think about your journey,
there's a couple things I think are
great and unusual about you. One is they
hired you from the outside and you
weren't a security guy and you had to
figure it out.
>> I wasn't an enterprise CEO either,
>> right? And so
I have a lot of questions along this
line, but you figured it out. Like
you're in meetings with your team with
the team and
I'm sure in a lot of meetings you know
what the hell they were talking about.
>> I still have that sometimes.
>> I guess uh how do you walk that line?
How did you learn? How did you keep How
did you not lose credibility and have
them eye roll at you?
>> I think all of that was has happened.
I'm pretty sure I'm pretty sure the eye
rolling's happened. I'm pretty sure some
left. It's still happening. Well, you
know, a little less now
>> because uh like you said, the stock's
done well, the company has done well.
So, people like to win and they figured
that somewhere in my madness there is a
way to win. So, they go with it and give
me the benefit of doubt because it's
worked out so far. But, yes, if it
doesn't work for a while, they start
wondering what the hell is this guy
doing again. So,
>> yeah. When you first came in though,
like
>> you didn't know a lot about it. Like
what was it?
>> Nothing. Let's be clear. This is you
don't have to be polite. I didn't know
anything. Okay. I literally thought
cyber security was two different words.
So I didn't know it was one word. Okay.
Right. And I walked in and I'm talking
about like executive security or
whatever. Like I didn't know what cyber
security was. And I'm sitting there and
talking to to you know our friend Jim
Gats or Ashim Chana who were part of the
hiring committee. Yeah. I think I got
hired because he had risk-taking venture
capitalist nomination committee which is
a good lesson by the way for companies.
They should have some people who have a
higher risk appetite in their non-gov
committees to hire people because
otherwise you fall into the trap of very
traditional people who are checking
boxes to hire people and they don't
>> I violently agree with that.
>> Yes, I think so. That's kind of an
interesting you know and of course
>> and generally nom and gov people are not
risk-seeking types of people.
>> Boards are not right. I mean public
company board you're getting paid
nothing right? You have zero appetite to
take risk. You can only get into trouble
for making a bad decision. You don't get
rewarded for making a good good
decision. So what do you do? You risk
manage.
>> So and risk management, you know, the
the most riskmanaged portfolio is the
S&P 500. It gives you market returns. So
you risk management hiring, you end up
with market returns. That's a good
outcome.
>> We have a section in our board meeting
once a year. It's erm enterprise risk
management.
>> And my co-founder made a joke. He said,
"Those are your three those are your
three least favorite words in the
English language."
>> I think we have one of those, too.
>> Yeah. You didn't know what you're doing.
You joined. How did you How did you What
the hell were you doing?
>> First of all, why did you take the gig?
>> You know, I uh was home for a year and a
half and you'll be surprised. Not many
people want
>> CEO from the outside for a substantive
business. Usually, they're very broken.
>> And you sit there and say, why would
anybody touch this job? So, you don't
want those. uh or they have currently in
the current tech environment usually
there's a founder who doesn't like doing
certain parts of their job and they want
to hire someone to do that part of the
job but they still want to be around and
run the company and I've been there done
that take the box
>> and then you sometimes you find these
gems where which are fully public
there's no controlling shareholder the
founder has never been CEO doesn't want
to be CEO he wants to be a technologist
and he's and it's a well-run company
decently run company it was you know
Mark Mclofflin my predistor was amazing
guy he built this on a very high
integrity culture Sure. So you had
something great to work with from from
sort of the the the bones of it and then
you're in a market which is going to be
amazing because cyber security is a
market which is going to keep growing as
tech keeps growing. Cyber security is
going to keep growing and then the sort
of the icing on the cake is like it's
got one and a half% market share which
means this is an industry ripe to
consolidate in some way shape or form
why can't there be a 10 or 20% share
player in this space which is which is
traditional for most tech. That was my
thesis walking in. So I actually didn't
study cyber security to understand Palo
Alto. I sat there and say how does
enterprise companies work. If you do
enterprise math it kind of falls into
two very simple places right. So any
founder is thinking about scaling their
company
>> has to think about two different
scenarios. One scenario is it works in
the I call it productled growth model
where you build a great product people
adopt it your cost of sales are
dimminimous whether the Atlassians the
world or the Adobe one part of their
business or the Dropbox is the world
there's there
>> and they they usually struggle to do the
larger enterprise deals because the
product's not designed for that as well
the enterprise guys want way more
features want way more adaptation so
usually end up doing really well in the
packaged software packaged solution
business. and it with some sort of
little dials but your UI is pretty
because you want to convince customers
you're almost like a consumer company in
a product like that's kind of one part
of the business that's good because if
you look at the other side I have very
simple maths you know so I'm like
looking and saying look if you look at
the enterprise business sub billion
dollars your cost of sales marketing and
support is 60 to 80%.
>> Yeah it's huge
>> that's what it is the rest of it is only
20 to 30%. And even at scale that goes
down to 18 to 25%. So there's not much
spread there. All the profit is made in
optimizing that 80%.
>> How do you do that without crushing
growth?
>> That's a good question.
>> Thank you.
>> You don't you don't crush growth. You
need to be of a certain size and scale.
So the first thing I did uh amongst many
things is I took our operating margin
down from 20 plus% to 17%.
>> I actually invested 500 basis points
more into growth. like we're too we're
not investing enough.
>> Right? So that like that coupled with no
knowledge of cyber security really made
people's eyes go like oh [__] this guy
just walked in wants to hire more
engineers buy more companies use up the
company's cash and reduce our operating
margin. That sounds great.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> Let's start
>> really popular.
>> Very popular. And then I walk in I
literally just walk into the company
like what am I doing here? To your point
the first six months I didn't know.
>> Did you feel that way?
>> I did.
>> Yeah.
>> I walked in but remember I I I'll tell
you a different story. So this was
taught to me by a fund manager. My first
job in the United States. Well, my first
job which I loved was I was a buyside
analyst and I walked in and my job was
to analyze stocks in front of stand in
front of very opinionated portfolio
managers and tell them why to buy the
stock.
>> Yep.
>> And it didn't really matter. I mean,
come on. You're reading about the stock.
There was no chat GBD to summarize stuff
for me. There was no Google search. Then
you had to go read a bunch of financial
reports, put it together, do a
spreadsheet, put a model together and
tweak some numbers and say, "I think we
should buy the store."
>> Y
>> and you have to do that based on some
speeches of the CEO and CFO had made or
you'd met them once for half an hour.
That's kind of like pretty out there to
go do that stuff. Anyway, we did that.
The problem was two weeks later they
would do something different than your
thesis. Now you had a choice. You could
change your opinion based on that and
get buffeted by that and go to the port
and say, "Hey, I was wrong. I changed my
opinion." and then two weeks later do
something else. Or you could have to
deal with all the uncertainty inside and
still maintain your thesis on some way,
shape or form. So you had to decide what
a long-term thesis was and deal with the
uncertainty amongst yourself without
making it visible. That's what I learned
when I was way younger than today. I
said kind of like walking into politics,
I felt the same way. I said I had to
keep my insecurities inside me. I had to
keep my my convictions inside me. Sort
of be like a duck, you know, like be
serene on top but paddle furiously
underneath and try and get my [__]
together. what I was trying to do and I
used to call near Zuk our founder either
in the morning or in the evening on my
way to or from work and I used to call
Lee Clarage the chief product officer
the other time and I'd spend half an
hour 45 minutes asking them all kinds of
questions and then I'd call Mark
Mclofflin sometimes because he was still
available as an adviser board member I'd
call Ashim I'd call Jim I'd be calling
these people all the time I don't know
how many phone calls I've made
>> I saw 300 plus cyber security startups
in the first six months I was there
>> cuz I was just trying to learn absorb
>> so that allowed me to start building a
mental framework as to how this thing
should work. But I knew we were subscale
less than $2 billion in revenue with SBC
north of 15%. We were not set up as a
good long-term public company. And
watching the, you know, the the half
cycle of a cyber security company is 10
years.
>> In 20 years, they're gone.
>> Yeah.
>> So, we're already past our halfway mark.
>> So, I'm like, oh my god, this is a this
is a known formula. You take a look at
the semantics, the McAfei of the world.
There's a whole bunch of, you know,
carcasses in enterprise which didn't
cross the 1015 billion Rubicon of market
cap. So, we got to go get past that. The
only way to get past that is to grow our
way out of our space in the market. We
were one of seven companies below $20
billion, above 10.
>> Yep.
>> Like we got to get past this 20, 30, 40
billion mark because we can that the
only way to get there is through revenue
growth. Once you get revenue growth,
then you can start worrying about
optimizing your sales and marketing cost
because then you can see how to. So my
only focus when I started buying stuff
was I'm listen to a customer and you
have an expensive salesperson most
expensive resource and they walk and
say, "Hey, would you like a firewall
guy?" I said, "I just bought one." I was
like, "Oh [__] I can't go back for
seven years to this guy."
>> Totally.
>> So your conversion rate is very low. But
say you don't want a firewall, you want
endpoint security. If you don't want
that, you want some cloud security. You
want that? You want some SDWAN? I got
something to sell you. Yeah.
>> But just it's higher conversion.
advertise my sales people a lot easier.
So, that was a very simple insight I
walked in with saying if I can sell more
stuff to the same customer,
there's a higher probability I can get
through my operating margin dilemma.
>> Back to you.
>> Yes.
>> It sounded like you have a little or at
least had imposter syndrome and you hit
it pretty well.
>> I have it. I have it right now actually.
I'm nerv I'm a little bit nervous
interviewing you.
>> Oh, you shouldn't be nervous. like is is
is
we all have
the fear of what we don't know and fear
of making a wrong choice. Um there's a
balance. There are some people you can
show your willingness to adapt or
uncertainty if it depends on how you
want to call it or the respect for their
superior knowledge. Um and then you have
to hold it off from the others. So with
Near and Lee, I was very comfortable
talking to them or Mark, I was very
comfortable talking to them about what I
was learning because they needed to
understand. They were aware of it. And
by the way, they were they knew when I
interviewed the first time when they
offered me the job, I said, "Actually, I
want another another set of interviews."
They're like, "What?" I say, "Yes, I
want to go back and talk to Ne and Lee
and Mark." So actually, when the job was
offered to me, I said, "Hold the offer.
I'm going to go back to talk to them
because the last time they were
interviewing me. This time I want to
interview them." So I went back and I
said, "Listen, guys, you do understand
what you're signing up for. I do not
understand cyber security. You get it?
They're like, "Yes, we get it. We have
5,000 people who do." And we're still
trying to make sense of it. I said,
"Okay, that's good." One, I said, "Two,
remember this is going to be one
company. It's not going to be one sales
company and one product company. So, I'm
not coming to fix sales. I'm trying to
run the company."
>> Mhm.
>> So, I literally had Lee and Ne commit to
the fact that they were signing up for
the unknown entity known as Nikash, who
didn't know anything about cyber
security, and they'd guide me and work
with me for me to get to a place where
we can make this work. So I was very
comfortable with sharing with them what
I was learning, what I didn't know. And
that kind of gave me some comfort and
courage. But you can still walk into
meetings where you have a distinguished
engineer sitting there saying, "Who is
this guy just why did he show up here?
And why does he get the big bucks to go
tell me?"
>> You showed it to a small circle, but to
the company, you didn't show that
imposttor syndrome.
>> No. Um,
>> you showed a face of somewhat confident.
>> I was learning. Look, we I joined in
April, September. We didn't analyst put
out a target saying do a billion dollars
of next generation security ARR which we
didn't have a next generation product we
didn't have anything we have sales
people were going to build a billion
dollar AR business in three years we
built a larger than billion dollar
business in three years so sometimes you
know you I think look in my rule is very
simple I did this before I used to work
at T-Mobile I took a job at Google I
took a pay cut and I didn't know how to
sell advertising I didn't know what ad
how advertising was sold I ran Google
Europe we all sold advertising I had to
figure it out. And my view for everyone
who's listening or every CEO or founder
is in the early part, swing big. Swing
big, you fail big.
>> If you're a new new CEO,
>> why not swing as hard as you can, right?
Take three swings. Who cares? At the end
of the day, if it works out, it's going
to work out spectacularly. If it doesn't
work out, pack your bags and move.
>> Okay, let me ask it related I have like
a million more questions, but related to
that,
>> when we would hire people at HubSpot,
>> Yes. And we had this thesis like give
them a lot of time, let them interview
and slowly come up to speed. But
actually the current CEO of HubSpot
joined like the week before co and she
got thrown into it and she did great.
What is your sort of philosophy on that
kind of thing?
>> Like you got thrown in.
>> Yeah.
>> And you went after it. You're you've got
an amazing exec team there. You bring
someone in from the outside kind of slow
roll them or you throw them in the fire.
Look, it's very hard to
fly a plane by sitting next to the
person flying the plane.
>> Yeah.
>> So, if you are going to fly the plane,
if you're competent, you know how to fly
it, you got to go sit in the pilot seat.
So, you can't like slow roll a CEO into
the role. Now, look, when I took the job
at Google for 3 months, I didn't
>> decide anything.
>> I just said, "You guys keep doing what
you're doing." Look, most companies will
run for two, three months without
interfering, anyone interfering. Like
the biggest decision I had to make when
I walked in was, "Oh my god, it's
performance season. We have this money
left on our equity budget. We like to
give it like in India." I said, "Sure,
go right ahead." And then I had to go
fight SBC out. So you I got I had to pay
for my bad decisions. But the point is I
didn't have to make any important
decisions for those first three months.
Things were working. People want to do
their jobs and it ran in a very
non-interfering way. So I think most
companies
>> should be able to run 3 to 6 months on
autopilot within reason. M
>> but after 3 to 6 months the lack of
strong decision making in those periods
starts to show up you starts having
impact right so hopefully your
predecessor set it up in a way that is
still rolling on good decisions that
were made before now you got to go jump
in and see which decisions do I need to
make so I think there is some time that
people can take to figure stuff out
>> just kind of back on you personally you
strike me as I don't know you super well
but you strike me as being very calm and
you don't seem stressed out and I coach
tons of CEOs are like all the SEOA CEOs.
They're stressed. Um
>> stressed for what?
>> They're just stressed like existential
levels of stress. Like am I correct?
You're you don't you strike me as a
pretty cool customer.
>> My my work doesn't stress me.
>> Has it ever or did it in the beginning
and now you kind of got your legs under
you?
>> No, my work's not stressed me. And you
know, even my wife wonders like where do
you get the conviction from? Like
>> where do you get it?
I had no belief in myself that
>> where did that come from?
>> Maybe growing up,
>> mom, dad.
>> It's It's kind of like I was that kid. I
was that kid who get home on time, get
my homework done, not worry about my
parents telling me to do it, you know,
make my bed, be the good kid, and get
[__] done. And it's kind of like, you
know, in a way, sometimes your parents
actively encourage you. Sometimes they
don't interfere and they let you do your
thing because you believe but you know
they have your back.
>> So I think knowing that somebody has my
back and I'm well protected, well
covered is usually what's made me do
better. And at Palo Alto, the best part
is I have an amazing board and I know my
board has my back.
>> And I think that's kind of important in
any management lesson, whether it's a
board, whether it's a CEO or their
colleagues or whether it's whoever
you're a manager, your people need to
know you have their back
>> because if if it's kind of like, think
about it like if you're if you're
hanging out of a plane and you know, if
you're like doing something and
somebody's else is holding the rope, you
got to believe this person's going to
pull me back in when things get rough.
If I trust that person's gonna pull me
back in and protect me, I will go flail
and do whatever I need to do. So, I've
always felt that when somebody's had my
back, I can do well. What's the worst
that could happen?
>> Got it. You kind of you a bit a lot of
your career, you running sales
organizations.
>> Funny enough, you
>> or go to market orgs.
>> Well, let's see. I was an analyst.
>> You ran Google Europe. That was sort of
go to market.
>> Yeah. But it's kind of interesting. I
did run Google Europe. Yeah. But when I
inherited Google Europe, we were 20% of
the company's revenue.
>> Yeah.
>> When I left, we were the largest
business of Google, which is very rare
for an American company to have a larger
European business than US business.
>> So, I had to come back here and increase
the growth rate here in the US. So,
>> but you don't do that by being just a
goto market person. You have to run a
crossf functional play because it's kind
of like if the marketing is not doing
well, it's impacting my business. How do
I get marketing? So as the only guy go
to market guy at Google who marketing
reported to ever
>> before me marketing reported directly to
you know my boss and after me marketing
reported to the reports to the CEO when
I was at Google both marketing and sales
reported to me so you have to be able to
run a cross functional playbook if you
want to be successful.
>> Okay but I guess my question to you is
like I look across the industry
>> there's not a lot of kind of people who
grew up and go to market as as if I'm
grown up yet, but uh let's let's go
back. I started my life
>> off
>> as a Bill Mcderman at Service Now. I
kind of throw youish in that bucket.
There's very few. Why do you think that
is?
>> Yeah, but I see I don't see myself as a
go to market person.
>> I can do go to market. I'm not a go to
market person.
>> Okay.
>> I am
>> You're an athlete.
>> I spend 50% of my time in product. M
>> but you grew up running big go to market
orcs. You grew you did a lot of stuff.
>> I did all kinds of stuff. I was a
analyst. I was chief marketing officer.
I was a product guy at T-Mobile.
>> I I did it. I I wrote code when I
started Fidelity. So I kind of like
>> did a whole bunch of things badly and
then eventually they decided I wasn't
good at one thing. I got to do
everything.
>> I'm a VP at XYZ company right now.
>> Yes.
>> And I want to be CEO of a scaled
company. I don't want to found a
company. What advice do you have for me?
>> Uh, get lucky.
I think I'm I'm luckier than than good
in some of the scenarios. But like on a
more serious note in Silicon Valley,
most companies which do which lose sight
of a product focus over time die.
>> Yeah. So that's why I'm I'm fighting you
in characterizing me as a goto market
person because I don't see myself as a
goto market person versus other people
who've named a lot of respect for Bill
and Mark. They're probably the two the
best sort of sales leaders in the world
for the enterprise business. But
>> I'm not them. I'm not as good as them at
doing what they do. But I think I
balance product and go to market well
enough that allows us to run as a
cohesive company.
>> I build product half the time. The
acquisitions are done by me and a bunch
of people. I don't have an acquisitions
team. It's me. Oh,
>> I sit down with the CEOs. I look at the
tech. I look at all the
>> So,
>> but this is something I learned at
Google. Larry Page had a very clear
view. Companies that don't focus on
product lose sight of product. And like,
you know, the the best compliment is the
worst sort of compliment Larry ever gave
me. Says, "Oh, no company in tech failed
because of sales. You're running sales.
I don't have two hours. If I had two
hours, I could make you do your job
better, but I have to go focus on
product because that's why companies
fell." So, he just told me to go away. I
think it was a compliment. I think he
meant I'm doing my job well, but he did
say that Bill Campbell and Eric Schmidt
told me, "Do your job well, so go do
what you're doing and don't waste my
time because I'm focusing on product."
But he kind of told me to go away. And I
I believe what he said like if you don't
make sure you're you're obsessive,
paranoid about your product, you're
going to fail in the medium term and you
get complacent. And look, you know, I've
been there for seven years. I'm still
chomping at the bit. I'm still looking
at companies. I'm still meeting. I'm at
three today, right? just to understand
what they're working on, what's
interesting. I go back and process my
head, is that going to be big? Is that
interesting? Is that a feature? Is that
a platform of the future? Is that going
to be big?
>> And it's kind of interesting. There are
many examples out there in even in cyber
security which people have generated,
you know, billions of dollars of private
valuations have gone back to nothing in
some cases. I think there's a few out
there, but I'm constantly evaluating
them, trying to analyze, will they get
there, will they not be able to get
there? And I think I have reasonably
good hit rate in my brain in terms of
what works, what doesn't work. Just back
to my question. I'm I'm an upandcomer.
>> Oh, okay. You want to go talk with the
VP? Yes.
>> Uh, and I need some advice from,
you know, I'm a founder. I'm a little
bit of a different animal than you, but
I I want let's say I'm a upandcomer and
I want to be you. Like, what what do you
do? Okay. You're 30. Yeah. Well, you
have to have product savvy. If you don't
understand product in your industry or
product in where you want to be, it's
going to be hard in Silicon Valley,
right? You don't need to understand
product.
You have to be able to sell. But at the
end of the day, even my head of product
sells.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Because you're trying to solve a
customer's problem. You can have great
product vision. You can do a whole bunch
of stuff. But if you're not able to
sell, we don't need you. Right. So
there's a combination of being able to
sell and being able to build product. I
think
if you're any other function in a tech
company, we shouldn't make you CEO,
right? We shouldn't make the finance guy
the CEO. We shouldn't make the marketing
guy the CEO or gal. We just have to make
sure you have you're a deep technologist
and you can go innovate your way out of
everything and we're going to be people
going to be buying us whether they like
us or not because we have the best
innovation on the planet. Yeah.
>> Or you're able to balance that
innovation with good UI as in you're a
good person you can sell as well. And
that's I think that's the magic formula.
>> Um okay you brought up Larry. You've
worked for some interesting people.
>> Yes.
>> You work for Larry. You work for Eric.
>> Yes. You work for uh
>> Masa Sergey Brin.
>> Yep. Is what have you taken from them?
Is there a common thread that we can
share?
>> Uh
the common thread is
all of them to some degree have had high
standard deviation.
>> Okay. What do you mean by that?
>> What I mean by that is that they're not
your run-of-the-mill downthe middle
people. They always have some some
things that they're so focused and say
good at that they ignore the other part.
>> They're obsessive
>> obsessive or they have focus on one
thing which they can ignore the other
things not worry about and somebody else
takes care of it. Larry was very
obsessed about product and innovation
and like literally you talked to him
going in there showing him a sales plan.
and he wants to talk about, you know,
tunnels that we can run on 101 to reduce
traffic or we were flying to Spain once
and he literally came with the idea of
Google Maps on the plane saying, "Oh,
you know, how many miles of roads are
there in in the United States? Maybe
instead of trying to get ctographic maps
and being held to ransom by e the
mapping authorities of countries, we
just go ride our own cars around the
streets. We'll cover them." when he was
doing the math, how many cars you how
many drivers he needed or how many
cameras do we need to buy to go take a
photo copy of every book in every
library in the world.
>> How about Eric?
>> Eric, I think uh was spectacular for
Google. I think what he did being able
to get the best out of founders and put
some structure around them to Eric was
the best interface between two young
founders who had never run a company
with people who were used to structure
and used to companies and he was the
best kind of foil interface encourager
mentor because Eric was very true to
what the founders wanted. he always
found a way of exposing and capturing
and encapsulating what they wanted and
translating to the rest of the
organization. So he was amazing at I
think he's the one reason one of the
many reasons why Google went from being
that small sort of search white paper to
being effectively what is now multi-
trillion dollar company. I think his
incubating it was amazing and his
ability to sort of take himself out of
the equation in a self aacing way. Even
then he has opinions and he would find a
way of of
sort of couching his opinions away that
it would feel like the founders's idea.
>> So he did a really good job I think of
translating their wishes and being able
to get what they wanted at the same
time.
>> Have you taken a lot from him in
PaloAlto?
>> I think so. Look, we all absorb certain
behaviors from different people.
>> Sounds like you absorbed a bunch of him.
>> Him, Larry, Masa.
>> Tell me about Masa. What' you take from
him? What can we all learn from Masa?
>> Look, I told you we should hit
hard and, you know, hit big in the first
early.
>> There's no earlier than hitting big
every day, right? I keep I I say that I
said it before. You know, we bring up
our kids and we teach them. We risk
manage our kids. You know, our kids grew
up saying, "Don't cross the street. Be
careful. look like left, look right,
don't jump at the pool without a flirty
or literally constantly risk managing
our children until they grow up and say,
"Oh, good. My kid's a good kid." He
comes home and does homework like me,
you know, and doesn't get into trouble.
That's risk management. Masa does not do
that. Masa's the opposite. Masa says,
"Okay, we can borrow more money. Okay,
let's go double down on this asset.
Don't worry about this one. Let's go do
this one." And he's like a, you know,
kid in a candy store. He will go bet big
every day. And that's kind of how he
operates. So his risk appetite is
fundamentally different than anybody
else I've met in my life.
>> And that's kind of like he's kind of
like that kid who falls and stands up
every time takes another punch in the
face because he knows one of these
punches going to land not land he's
going to win. My Mount Rushmore of CEOs
are Steve Jobs,
my dad and Jerry Garcia. Who do you
follow? Do you follow like my gen I
think we're similar ages like Steve Jobs
was kind of the guy. The younger
generation seems to follow Elon. Is
there someone is there a
>> you know I think
>> is there someone now you're learning
from or watching?
>> It's kind of like this this is an
interesting question. Uh I struggle to
encapsulate everything I want to learn
into one person.
>> Okay.
>> And I think if you look at some of the
great CEOs out there each of them has
some amazing set of attributes we can
try to look at and say oh my god this
person's crazy. I mean look at Leon like
you know he's the most innovative person
in the world. Now,
>> there are certain things I wouldn't want
to
>> sort of take from him, but his ability
to think out of the box, his ability to
think big, his ability to go solve a
really hard problem. And as he's proving
that, look, you solve a really hard
problem, you go at it for 5, seven,
eight years. You find the resources,
you're everybody else 8 years behind.
Now, the question is, can you capitalize
on that, monetize that? Look at whether
it's a car, whether it's Starlink,
whether it's Neuralink, whe I don't
know, you saw a company yesterday that
he's launched, which is called Macro
hard. It's be interesting. I don't know
quite know what it does but so his
ability to just think so far ahead and
try and go after meaty big problems very
fundamentally different than half the
founders show up saying I've got an app
which optimizes your sales flow dude how
many more of those do I need
>> right so I think watching him think
about trying to be a true entrepreneur I
think it's bar none right you just named
Bill Mcderman and Mark Penny I think
they're the two best enterprise sales
evangelists in the world I mean you can
learn from them because they know how to
go take something turn to a platform how
work the system, how to build go to
market, how to lead their teams to
greatness, right? I mean, look at the
other side. There are some amazing
founders. I was with Ali [__] last week.
I think he's amazing. He's doing a
phenomenal job at data bricks. He's
hard-nosed. He knows what he wants. He's
grinding it out and he's building
something that's going Sam Alman. Nobody
in their right mind
can imagine what he's up to, right?
Like, two and a half years ago, he just
launched at GPT. Today, we've got
hundred billion dollar deals. I mean,
these are big deals by any imagination.
like and you do three in a row in a span
of four weeks or 6 weeks. There's people
out there doing big gutsy meaningful
meaty stuff. Some of this still remains
to be seen where it's going to land. But
it's just is there a common thread,
>> appetite for risk.
>> They're all very different. Was when you
went through them like they're all very
different.
>> Very different. They're all very
different. And I think uh that's the
beauty of
>> yourself. Everyone else is taken.
You know, it's kind of like you're very
right in the way you say that if you're
not yourself, the risk is you're going
to do a shitty job of trying to be
somebody else. So, you might as well
keep doing a good job of being yourself.
And if that works out, it's good.
>> When I was CEO of HubSpot,
I had this ratio of the average HubSpot
employee was X, and I didn't want to be
more than 30x off.
>> Why was I wrong about that?
>> 30x of what?
>> The average. So, if the average Hub
spotter was making huh,
>> you know, 100,000 bucks, I didn't want
to be more than 30x. You're one of the
best paid CEOs in history. Tell me your
philosophy on pay.
>> Well, actually, you know, funny you
should, and I've never talked about this
publicly, but I didn't set out to be
Yeah. that when I met the board of Palo
Alto, I said, "Listen, you pay your CEO
20 million bucks a year. I plan to be
here for seven years. just give me seven
years worth of stock now and you can
take it away if I leave sooner at any
point in time. That's the only thing I
said.
>> It was a seven-year vest.
>> Yeah, it was a seven-year vest. I see.
>> And it's 20 million bucks here, which
what they paid Mark.
>> So, I didn't ask for any more than what
they were paying Mark. I did add a
twist. I said, "Listen, I don't need
money. Why don't do it all in options?"
>> They got cold feet. They gave me half in
options. Those half options turned out
to,
>> you know, tremendous amount of money
because of the fact the stock moved up
six times. I set out to be exactly what
they were paying somebody else relative
to the benchmarks in the market.
>> That's how you did it. Um, you're
advising a CEO today.
Uh, how should they think about comp?
Like should they be doing it like Elon?
Like you really pay a lot for great
performance. You don't pay that much for
mediocre performance. Should you be
heavy on ISOs versus nonquals versus
PSUs?
uh should you have long vests, short
vests like
>> I think the you're advising a board, you
know,
>> the balanced approach is that you have
to have enough on the table that the CEO
or the employee for that matter doesn't
feel like they can leave and go if
things don't work out.
>> Yeah.
>> You want enough skin in the game that
even in a reasonable scenario, I'm going
to make a reasonable amount of money so
I don't feel I need to go somewhere
else. Yeah. At the same time, there
should be adequate reward for hitting a
home run. I think that's the balance
boards need to strike. There's lots of
models out there in terms of how it's
done. There's a combination of RSUs and
PSUs that people do. There are threeear
vests people do. There are cumulative
vests. There's stock price. So, there's
many different tools in the toolkit to
make it happen. I think that's not
that's not kind of where
it actually matters.
>> Okay. I think where it matters is
and this I've seen this many times
because obviously my packages are public
and I've had many CEOs call and say how
do you structure this? The CEOs actually
have to have a conviction of what they
believe the business is capable of.
>> Right? Elon just didn't go ask for a
package. He actually said I believe I
can do this to the business. He actually
achieved that and then he got in trouble
because it wasn't fully done the right
way. But he had a conviction. Many of
the people who have taken packages like
Elon haven't failed as well because they
didn't get there. So you have to have a
very reasonable sense of
>> scenario planning. How can my business
get there? I can tell you high power
altar can go from now what is $140
billion company to half a trillion
dollar company in 10 years if certain
things work out right. I have a view as
to how to get there.
>> I know the math to get there and the
question can I execute to the math.
>> If you have a math you can execute to
the math you'll get there. But I've seen
CEOs who say oh my math is because I'm a
you know thinly traded stock at 5%. I
just went public. I think I can triple
the frame. But that thing can go down as
quickly as it goes up and it's fully
100% public. Go do the math. So I think
many people don't do the math of what
the feasible set of outcomes is and what
the probability associated with them is.
Once you do the math, understand the
probabilities, then you can go take
whatever.
>> I think the thing that's broken out of
it is like most public companies, they
look at your comps. Yes.
>> Similar market size companies. Then
every public company says we're going to
the comps and we're going to pay you at
the 75th percentile. And
>> but after five years the 70% moved up
because everybody's now that's 50th
percentile.
>> Absolutely.
>> Don't tell everybody that.
>> Yes. Um okay, last question.
>> Yes, sir.
>> You've got a very in I don't know you
well, but my sense from talking to Jim
and others, you have a very vibrant,
interesting life outside the
spreadsheet.
>> Um and I'm just going to rattle a few
things off that I know about and I know
there's a lot more. You purchased a
cricket team.
>> Yes. Uh, you won the MX ProAm golf
tournament pretty recently.
>> Blind squirrel Theory finds an acorn.
>> Yep. Um,
you married what seems like an amazing
woman from an amazing family, had an
amazing wedding ceremony.
>> Yes.
>> And it kind of goes on and on. Most of
the CEOs I work with are pretty obsessed
with work and don't really have much of
a vibrant life outside. particularly now
like it seems like people are kind of
following the Elon playbook and the 996
um playbook. Tell me about your life and
how how you think about it. Give me give
me some advice.
>> Oh, look um when I turned 40,
I invited 40 of my friends uh for my
40th birthday. I took them away and we
had a great time.
>> How old are you now?
>> I'm 57. It's public, so there's no harm
talking about it.
>> I'm the same.
>> Okay. So, um, and
I had I actually spoke about every one
of the 40 people who were there at my
40th birthday. And I found that amazing.
And I said, I hope I can do that when
I'm 50 and I can do that when I'm 60.
>> And it's kind of like
you can't do that if you don't invest in
them. So, I like to invest in my
friendships. I spend time with my
friends. I check on them. They check on
me. They know I'm there for them. So,
that takes up a reasonable part of my
life. I have three amazing kids. Uh
>> making sure they get my attention. My
wife
>> I met one of your kids at the airport.
>> Yes, you did. You did. Yes, you did. And
I have two others. Uh you have met, but
all three of them are amazing and I want
to be able to spend time with them. I
also promise myself I try I try I can't
say I'm 100% on this. I try not to do
dinners. I don't do work dinners. Oh,
>> which is hard because a lot of people
want to do work dinners. But in a
sitting and talking business after
having worked the whole day is not my
cup of tea. Now once in a while I get
>> you have to do them. I was last night I
went and spoke to 12 CEOs who were at my
wife's restaurant. So I had to go do
that but I asked her to come join me
afterwards at dinner with her. So I
would always try and find a way and by
the way this is not just there at Google
I it was a rule and if you work to
Google in marketing every event for
customers would have to have with
spouses so I could bring my spouse to
dinner.
>> Okay. So, I find a way of making sure
I'm not without my family at dinners. I
try to do that. I kind of have a rule
that I try not to work weekends.
>> Okay.
>> Which is hard, which I still do about 2
three hours a weekend, but I I I want to
work my 60 hours between
>> 7 is that is it about 60 hours you
figure you work?
>> I think so. I think so. Now, my wife
will tell you that probably my brain
works way longer than that, 60 hours.
And you know she always sort of
questions me why did I join two
different boards in addition to Palo
Alto I'm on the board of Uber and
Rishamont but you know it keeps me
intellectually honest I see other
business.
>> What's your day like? So what was tell
me about today?
>> What time did you get up?
>> I woke up at 5:30.
>> Why?
>> I go to the gym at 6. I watch CNBC for a
little bit.
>> Okay.
>> I unwind. I
>> CNBC is doesn't unwind me.
>> Well I watch it to see what's going on
in the world so I can kind of keep track
of what's going on. I usually go to the
gym. I'll go invert myself for five or
six minutes. I'll do a little bit of
weights. I'll do a little bit of
stretching. I go to the get myself
stretched, etc. Work my way back to my
kids at 7:00. They wake up at around
seven. They're young and chat with them
a little bit.
>> Yeah.
>> Then I came to work at 8:30.
>> Okay.
>> And I talk to three different customers.
I talked to two startups. I
>> In the day, is it you booked every half
hour? You have big openings. You have
time to think. Do you
>> I usually am booked every half hour.
Sometimes it's an hour. I usually have a
half an hour gap here or there to just
>> you get exhausted during the day ever or
you just up.
>> No, I can power through the days pretty.
Look, my superpower is uh context
switching and being able to focus.
>> I think that's a key thing.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm the best consumer of slides or
PowerPoint than you can find. I can
Okay. I can absorb 20 in under a minute
and tell you what the problem is.
>> Oh, that's a pattern recognition.
>> That's a superpower.
>> It's pattern recognition. Yes. Um, lots
of inputs coming into you like millions
of freaking emails and Slacks and texts
and phone calls and requests for your
time. How do you manage the just the
hurricane of chaos? Good news is unless
it's a customer email,
you can ignore it.
>> Okay. Unless somebody really needs
something for you, you can ignore most
of them. Half the inbox is full of junk.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, probably 10 20% is people telling me
what's going on. and I'll read through
them and I kind of get the gist of it.
>> If it's a customer will not respond.
>> I did learn a trick which I do in my
personal inbox because my personal email
is a lot less,
>> you know, noise in them. Every time I've
action an email or I don't need it, I
will either archive it or delete it or
file it.
>> Okay.
>> So, my personal inbox is always less
than 100 emails.
>> Your inbox zeroish?
>> 100 emails is pretty good. And usually
I'll go review it once in a while and
some of them will go in. and I'll action
them because that I keep pretty
>> well managed and the work one I do it
right then if I don't right then there's
a risk that it slips
>> what advice do you have to the founders
who are really committed to 996 and
their teams on 96
>> what is 996
>> 996 is uh they but they require of
themselves
>> like a new Porsche or something
>> no no it's they they require everyone to
work 9 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. six days a week
in the in the office.
That's kind of in fashion with the
startups now and it's most of them.
>> Yeah. I I think there is tremendous
amounts of impatience out there because
people somehow believe that every minute
that they're not trying to further their
objective. They're going to not win. And
I think that's a fallacy.
>> I think some amazing businesses have
been built because their idea was so
different. I don't think people have
outco competed Starlink even if they
weren't working nice even though Elon
does for the most part because he's
trying to get somewhere. He's got six
different companies to manage. But I
just think working smarter might be
better in balance
>> than working hard. You run the risk of
burning out. You run the risk of burning
people out.
>> Yeah.
>> I I I don't see the value of 99.
>> I appreciate you coming on the pod.
You're kind of the Renaissance CEO. Uh I
just came back from Florence and you're
kind of a Renaissance man CEO. So, I
appreciate you coming on.
>> Thanks for having me. I appreciate it.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Okay, hopefully you like that episode
with Nikesh. He's terrific. You probably
noticed we talked a lot about M&A. It
was a little self- serving because
HubSpot's done a bunch of M&A and I
wanted to learn from him. He's done a
ton of it and it's largely worked. But
what I wanted to do for you guys is to
kind of turn it around and and use what
he said as like what would I do as a
founder thinking about selling my
company or getting interest in selling
my company? How might I think about
that? And how might I negotiate with
someone for example like Nesh? Now first
there are several reasons you might
consider selling. Um one is if you've
got a big platform player like Palo Alto
or Salesforce or whoever it would be and
they come knocking and you pass on them,
there's a decent chance they buy your
competitor. And if they don't do that,
there's a decent chance they build it
themselves. It's going to take him a
while, but that big platform player
could be hard to deal with down the
road. And you know, one of my things is
either either you become a platform or
you get eaten by a platform. And that
could easily happen to you. And so don't
underestimate that. The other thing he
said on the call that was interesting is
if a sales rep selling his product and
it's a platform, there's 10 different
products on top of that platform, that
11th product, yours,
PaloAlto doesn't need to be out innovate
you. It doesn't need to be beyond you in
terms of features and functions. It
needs to be a table stakes and the buyer
will want to continue to buy from that
platform vendor. And so don't
underestimate if you pass on it the
trouble that could come down the road.
Um the second obvious reason is you make
a ton of money, sell the company. Um and
if you're young, you can put that money
to work and start another company. Um
I'm old. Uh and the third really nice
thing about selling your company is you
get massive distribution for your
invention. You invented this amazing
thing. You're working on distribution.
You're probably not enjoying that and
you can get huge distribution from the
platform better. And that certainly
happens with Palo Alto. So those are
kind of the reasons to do it. So let's
say you're thinking about doing it. I
think a mistake a lot of founders make
is they overthink the headline number
like we got bought for five billion
whatever the number is. And if you look
at it from Nikesh's side, there's other
things you can negotiate other than the
headline price. So let's dig into if I
were negotiating with somebody to get
acquired, some of the things I might
want to do. First thing he said that was
interesting is typically when they buy a
co-founding team, one wants to stick
around and the other doesn't. And I
found kind of the same thing when we
acquire companies inside of HubSpot. So
maybe one thing you negotiate is there's
one comp plan for you if you want to
stick around or one comp plan for your
for your co-founder or one vesting
schedule for that one that wants to get
out. No matter where you are on that, I
think you want different terms. Um that
might be one you want to work on. The
other thing he said that's kind of
interesting is when he buys a company,
he typically rolls back some of your
shares and gives you a three-year vest
on them, which is a little harsh, but
everyone kind of does it. But what he
said on top of that was he typically
sticks a bunch of new options on top of
you from PaloAlto Network up to 30%. So
that's definitely something you can
negotiate. He also said it's very hard
to give massive grants to somebody
during the normal board cycle. This is
the time he can kind of get away with
it. So, you might think about that if
you're getting acquired. Um, you also
want to think about the position. Like
most companies when they acquire you,
you get knocked a few levels down in
that ORC chart. I like the way he
thought about it. Like, hey, we were
trying to get into the space. You guys
were crushing us. We're going to put you
you on top of our team. You might try to
negotiate that. Um, I think would be a
very nice thing to do. And the last
thing you said that was brilliant that
that I want to start doing at HubSpot is
during the diligence process, you
basically envision what the road map
will look together so there's no big
surprises, but during that you might
come up with some really good ideas that
make you more excited about it. Those
are some of the tricks. So the headline
number is important. It's good for your
ego, but there's a bunch of other
important things that you want to
negotiate when you're going through the
due diligence with someone. Okay. One of
the things I really like about Manesh is
is he's he unlike I was, he's very
focused on work life balance. He works
Monday through Friday. Um, he tries to
work 60 hours a week and he doesn't do
business dinners. I think that's a
pretty good hack. I I do a lot of
business dinners that I could I don't
need to. I wonder for myself and I
wonder for you if you took Nikesha's
approach like would your company split
in two and fall apart or maybe would the
company be better off? Would you give a
little room for your brain away from the
company and the day-to-day tactics to
really think and concentrate? He talked
a little bit about luck and I feel like
I've been very lucky and I want to wish
you the best of luck on your CEO journey
and I'll see you on the next edition of
the long strange trip.